A year of experience in UI/UX Design.

Way back 2021 of October, I create a Desktop Application in JavaFX
with MySQL as my database. During that time I am having a hard time
creating the look and feel of the system so what I did is I start 
planning all of the possible features and urgent features of the 
app. After finalizing all of the features I immediately start 
coding without creating the sketch or preview to what could be the 
result of this project. 

Upon building this system I am starting to struggle how to make the
UI looks beautiful and appealing, because of that I end up coding 
simple feature for days and 80% of the time I am tweaking and testing
different kinds of looks. Days have gone by I am still building 
the application with only 50% of progress(it is a simple desktop app).
So what I did in order for me to balance my time to UI and creating 
business logic I start writing my rough sketch to a piece of shit 
of paper and try to visualize how it looks. After doing that the 
time I spent on building the UI of the app is same on the time 
creating business logic of my app. After that project I always do 
rough sketching to papers and a lotted at least 1 to 2 days of 
finalizing the features and UI. 

Even though I find writing UI design to paper much more productive 
and easy way to deal with I still struggle on my UI part and I know 
to my self that I could do more better than that(UI). When I am 
scrolling to facebook feed I stumbled to a group post that contains
the design of his work it is a web design created using Figma software
and I try reading the comments wondering if someone asked him what 
is figma but unfortunately it doesn't have a comment so I search it 
on myself and I found the official website of the figma and try to
create an account and get my hands dirty. That day I am very happy 
that there's a website exist like that so I download the desktop 
version of figma and try building my project. That's where my UI/UX 
begins. 

Furthermore during my 4th year I was able to use adobe xd for figma
substitute and I found it more user friendly and easy to use but 
both XD and Figma are use friendly it's just my preference. Now 
everytime I create a project especially when it's kind of big 
I always create a drawing to papers and transfer that to UI tool 
and make it more intereactive. 

As of today I now have the experience of creating: 
-Rough sketch
-Create a prototype of the UI
-Make it interactive using wireframing
-Creates multiple viewport UI